- So Adam, tell me about Rebase.
- Rebase, DAX, if you hadn't heard,
is a live game show for developers
where you can win real cash prizes.
You've obviously heard about it
because you made it with me.
(laughing)
(upbeat music)
- This is fun 'cause we've been doing this podcast
and now we're making something together
and it's kind of like, it's fun to play with new tech
and to build stuff always,
but then doing it with a friend
and doing it about something that you enjoy,
like, I don't know, high quality production
and software development.
It's kind of like a mismatch of like a lot of interests.
So it's gonna be like HQ trivia,
but for developers, that's the idea.
- Yeah, I think I've also been reflecting on how
it's like a great intersection of things.
We get to, we both build with a similar stack,
so that lines up really well.
There are front end components to this
so we get to build front end stuff.
All the media stuff, you know, to produce a game show
is not just a bunch of questions,
it's like the intro titles and the transitions
and animations, you know, there's a lot of really cool stuff
we can do to make it feel really legit,
which I think we definitely wanna do.
And it's just fun.
It's like the goal of it is to make something
that people have fun playing and just fun and enjoyable.
It's something that we can all kind of share together
and do at the same time once a week, whatever it is.
Yeah, it never really worked on something like that.
- It feels like it could exist in the current dev community,
at least like in the small circles we exist in Twitter.
I think kind of a live event
that happens on some predictable schedule.
- Yeah, it's exciting to me.
We've got some good feedback.
We just launched the website.
So we're kind of like getting people to sign up,
stay informed.
That took like a week.
That was harder than we thought.
Would you say that was harder than you thought it would be?
So just make a landing page.
- Yeah, you know, I've been made a landing page
in a long time and then the back of my head, it's always like,
oh yeah, do you know, just just like a landing page.
But the thing with everything we're doing is we wanted,
we wanted to feel really high quality
and that starts with the landing page.
So I think that just made it a lot more challenging
than it initially seemed.
- Yeah, but I think like we're getting to take advantage
of all kinds of this AWS stuff that we enjoy.
There's services that make this a lot easier.
It was more than a landing page.
So we did like the whole social card thing
where you can share your card and it's generated per user.
- Maybe you just described like everything
that we set up and how it works.
- So we're using SST, shout out to SST.
It's very good, capital G.
We're using SST, we're using Astro for the landing page
and basically, I mean, you land on the landing page,
you can sign up with one of a couple of,
it's like Google or GitHub and we use SST off for that.
You click on it and you're taken to a page
that has your personalized ticket to the rebase premiere.
And we generate that just with like a lambda function
that uses puppeteer and takes a screenshot of a page.
I think that's a pretty like well-worn path.
At this point, we've like, there's plenty of prior art
to pull from when you're building something like that,
but like putting it behind an Astro site construct
and SSC to use that CDN and all that.
We had some stuff to figure out
just how we wanted to do it.
And that's it, I guess.
Is that it?
And then you share the URL, there's some referral stuff.
- Yeah, you can share your custom link.
That needs to render like a proper like OG image.
So it looks nice on Twitter.
Again, but that's the same puppeteer thing you talked about.
And then yeah, we track referral.
So that part was kind of funny because,
so we're using Dynamo for user storage.
And this normally isn't that big of a deal,
like you just create a user or whatever.
But the ticket had incrementing the place.
So the first one that signed up is number one,
next one's number two, et cetera.
And incrementing numbers are one of those things
that just you'd never use normally
'cause they just don't scale well.
So then they usually don't have any advantages.
So I haven't had to do that in years and years and years.
And last time I did that was probably in a SQL database.
So if I do that in Dynamo, it's kind of funny.
It sounds so simple, but it's surprisingly,
you need to know, you need to really understand
how Dynamo works to do it right.
- Well, 'cause like in a SQL database,
it's literally just like an auto ID thing, right?
Like there's just like a type of column
that just auto increments and you never think about it again.
- I think people might not be aware of this,
but to make that work, you didn't make it
so whenever there's an insert, something is locking
to make sure you're not incrementing twice by accident.
You're not issuing the same number twice by accident.
So even in a SQL database, you generally should not use those
because like why take that overhead if you don't need it.
And then Dynamo usually doesn't let you do stuff like that
because they don't let you do anything
that's not performant.
So yeah, we have to do like a funny like,
it's called an optimistic block thing where
it's like a funny, it's like weirdly complicated
to implement it correctly.
And I realized a couple of days ago, Adam,
that I didn't actually implement it correctly.
I forgot to do the initial read with how they have
that you concurrence you think you can set it.
- Yes, or consistency rather.
So I gotta go fix that.
But there haven't been any actual issues yet
because it's not like we have 1,000 people signing.
- Yeah, right.
- At least not yet.
- No, we couldn't have because turns out
land invocation limits start out at 10 in new accounts.
We've had so many issues with our new AWS account.
There's some feedback for AWS.
It's been painful.
- Yeah, I know that this is all new, right?
So just to kind of describe what was happening,
we signed up for a new AWS account to set this all up.
The limits on new AWS accounts are crazy.
Like we couldn't do anything.
We couldn't launch a cloud front distribution.
And then when we deploy, we're in a production
and it turns out we could only have 10 lambdas
running concurrently at once and we're hitting limits there.
This might be feedback from all the bad PR they get
whenever people have like surprise bills,
but it's just funny that two of us are running into this
and we're like the most AWS people out there.
- No, I think somebody said in like the hero Slack
that it's actually a fraud detection thing
and it might not be every account.
But I think the Lambda concurrency,
the function invocation concurrency thing,
I think that's actually every new account now.
I don't think you just default to the thousand.
- Oh, interesting.
- Like it used to be.
I could be wrong.
But yeah, there's still resources we can't create
because we have this sort of like fraud thing tripped
and they're trying to work through it.
- Yeah.
Well, there was also the, we had some like weird stuff
trying to figure out how to make the Share Card.
So the Share Card needs to render like in Twitter
with the OG image of this dynamic,
like image generation API we stood up.
But also we wanted like everyone to land on the landing page
and we wanted to just like serve a cached page
from the CDN.
I remember there was some like weird stuff there
where we couldn't figure out the best way.
So we ended up just like, there's like a dummy page per user
that's like an SSR page and it just has like head elements
and it just got all the tags.
So it's got the OG, all the metadata stuff.
But then it also uses the like HTTP redirect thing
as a header tag to just send you back to the landing page.
I don't know.
Is any of that stuff interesting?
Does any make care about this?
I don't know.
(laughing)
- Yeah, I mean, I think that just of is as well,
this was all surprisingly complicated.
And in that case, we needed to find a way to trick
the web crawler and to just start looking at that page
but have the user browser go to a different page
when they went there and we figured out
that HTTP refresh header, like a bot wouldn't follow that
but your browser would.
And is this something I feel like a lot of people
building lots of products, kind of neat?
So yeah, we should like write it up or something
at some point.
- Do you have a blog?
- I mean, we all have blogs and never writes it right.
- Just when you said that, like we should write that up.
Like, I don't even know where I would put it.
If I wrote something up.
- I just put it on Twitter and it turns out that I didn't know.
- Try the Twitter thread.
- Yeah, Twitter's killed my blog.
So landing pages are hard in 2023.
Who knew?
I didn't expect that, I guess.
It shouldn't AI be just writing our landing pages by now?
Like, what's going on?
- Well, we said we wanted a good landing page.
- We wanted it to be good.
So by making things good, it takes time.
You know what, I actually have a take here
and this isn't meant to be offensive
to anybody in this community
but the whole indie hacking movement
and I think that communities maybe dwindled a little bit
in the last six months.
So maybe I'm not saying anything super revelatory
but I feel like the whole ending hacking movement,
like this idea of like throwing something together fast.
MVP, like just get something up there.
It doesn't matter what it is.
That's always rubbed me wrong
because I care so much about quality.
And I know like if you spend a lot of time
like polishing a thing and nobody uses it, who cares?
I get the trade off here
but I also just like would rather put good stuff out there.
And I feel like at this point in 2023,
there's really no excuse for building something
that's not high quality.
Like with all the tools that are out there,
just like learning the right things to put together,
like it doesn't take that much effort.
It just takes a week to build a language
instead of six hours or whatever people want to crank them out.
- Yeah, exactly.
It's kind of like, and I've felt it's my whole career.
I think there's always added effort
to make something better
or do something a little bit more right.
I never feel that effort was ever that much.
It's never like you get this out in a day
or you get out in six months.
It's like a day versus a week,
which isn't like a terrible difference.
- Yeah, and if you care about quality,
I don't know, what is that?
What is, is that like, do users not care about quality?
Is that why indie hacking, is indie hacking successful?
Has there been like three of them, like Peter levels,
Danny Postman, who else?
There's been like three successful indie hackers.
- I think the trick with that is those,
the people that have been successful in that category
are insanely, insanely gifted and talented
in the marketing department.
So for them, they just need to launch a bunch of ideas
as fast as possible
'cause they just shove that into their marketing machine
and it spits out success.
So if you're gonna not spend a lot of time
on what you're building,
that means you should be spending a bunch of time
like becoming like an expert marketer,
like creating crazy reach, all that stuff.
I think then you can be successful, like then that all makes sense.
But for us, I think the quality is our marketing, right?
We're hoping people use this
'cause they're gonna try it and they're gonna be like,
"This is way too much effort for something like this."
Like we're just like a shitty little quiz app,
but this is like, you know, much more legit.
- It's an experience.
- Yeah, and that is our marketing.
So that's why we're putting the effort there.
At least that's how it makes sense to me.
- No, it makes sense to me.
It's just striking me like in the middle of this conversation
that rebase is a side project.
And I'm literally like just going through
this mid-life crisis where I'm like,
I hate side projects.
I never want another side project.
But it's not because of rebases
because like I've just built so many things over the years.
And then they just like set there and nag at me.
You said something to me in Discord the other day
that helped me.
It was like just like to drop things
and to not let them nag at you.
But I've got like domains expiring and like projects
that had big ideas and big, I don't know,
like hopeful ambitions for.
And then they just kind of like set there for a year
and you just feel real bad.
I don't know.
Do you have any thoughts on all that?
- I mean, I have the exact same thing with a few things.
They just become these monuments too,
to your failures in your past,
excitement that you no longer have anymore.
And that's innately sad.
So, I know, yeah, it feels bad.
It feels like you're not going anywhere.
- So is there a coping?
So like you laid out the bad part.
Is there a good part?
- We actually talk about this at SST a lot.
We talk about it as like motivation driven development.
I think there's two ways to perceive this.
Sometimes people perceive motivation as,
oh, you're just distracted
and you're like getting excited about the next thing
and never finishing something,
which can definitely be a thing.
And I think that gets about a lot.
But I also think there's a bunch of intuition
and what you're excited about.
So I try to focus now more on,
okay, what's the next thing I want to do?
Not from like a rational point of view,
but what am I excited like, what do I feel like doing next?
I feel like my brain is computing a bunch of things
and spitting that up.
And the reason I'm excited about it
is because it also is a thing that makes the most sense.
So yeah, like I said, there is like a pathology
to like just starting stuff and never finishing.
But the other side of it is also also good.
And you should listen to that as well, so.
- Yeah.
- Just working on what you're excited about.
- Okay, so I feel good about that.
'Cause there are always those mornings
where it's like, I could work on three different things.
I really want to work on this one.
I probably should work on this,
but you're saying maybe there's a reason,
like our instincts serve us here.
- Yeah, like some days you just got to eat your vegetables,
but I love vegetables.
I eat my vegetables every day next.
- That's true.
- My wife says I should.
- Eat the vegetables you don't like, there you go.
I'm sure there's some vegetables you don't like.
- I don't know, I've been thinking about this a lot
just the last like week, just the idea of like,
like I don't know what other professions are like.
This is all I've ever done.
Like I dropped out of college
and this is what I've done ever since.
But I have to imagine like it's a pretty unique career we have
where you can have this amazing, fulfilling job that you love
and you still just constantly have side projects.
Maybe it's not every developer.
Maybe it's like only the most ambitious have this problem
and we all just live on Twitter.
But it feels like everybody has a side project at all times.
And like we get paid like doctors
and we don't even have to go to school.
I should just be happy doing the one thing all the time.
Just like write down, sit down, write my code,
be a happy, employed developer.
But I've literally my entire career for 15 years.
I've always had something else I'm doing on the side
and I can't just do one thing.
- Yeah, I mean, but what else,
what would you be doing otherwise?
Like there's like, like you spend time with your family
like you have like a pre-balanced life and-
- Well, let's kind of be honest, like really honest.
I would just focus more on my day jobs.
I would like to spend the first time
on my cheating my day jobs by having side projects.
- Is that literally true though?
Cause I feel like it's not really a time thing.
It's an energy thing.
So given a project,
even if I have, you know, 18 hours a day to work on it,
I probably only have like four hours of energy
to work on that one thing.
That's just how I am, I don't know.
Like would you actually-
- No, that's a great point.
I'd probably just be on like, I don't know, on Twitter
in the time that I wasn't working on a side project.
- So it's tricky.
I think it's never, for me,
it's never been a time thing.
There's like more than enough hours in a day.
If you're on a consistent schedule,
it's just like sometimes I don't want to work
on something for too long.
- Okay, so I feel better then.
I feel better about my life.
I hope everyone else feels better.
Listen to this.
- Yeah, you're normal.
That's what you want to hear.
You just want to hear that you're normal.
I know that like this is a problem out there
because everybody has the same, like everybody buys
all the domains and they all like complain about the thing
that they haven't been working on that they should
or like the side projects that are withering.
So I know it's out there.
I feel better after this conversation.
I don't know that I'm fully healed,
but I can see a path towards just like accepting
the inevitability.
Like I am going to be interested in things at times
and just run with that, let it play out.
I guess the problem is when you invest a lot of time
or money or both into a side project,
it makes it more guilt laden.
The more you neglect it.
- Yeah, I know, but like it's, the alternative is
you never really get excited about anything work-wise
and you just kind of have this flat, stable experience,
which is okay, but, and there's nothing better
than feeling really excited about something
and like waking up and jumping, jumping onto it right away.
So I wouldn't give that up even if it,
even like never those things ever pan out.
- Yeah, so that's another thing.
That's been most of my career.
And I wanna say this with an asterisk and then circle back.
But like most of my career, it's like Christmas morning.
I can't wait to wake up.
Sometimes I have a hard time sleeping
just because I'm so excited about the thing I'm working on,
can't wait to wake up and work on that thing.
And I just saw somebody tweet and I don't even remember who it was
and I probably wouldn't say if I did.
But like just that they weren't that excited about programming,
there's just a job and like they don't know how they should feel
about that because they see all these developers
that are really into what they do.
Is that unique to software development?
Or is that just every career has people
who really are passionate about that thing?
And that's why they do it versus people who like,
"It's a good job."
I get paid well.
I do it, you know?
- Yeah.
Yeah, I mean, I don't really know.
I think what's unique is we aren't a creative feel
that you can like create stuff.
And usually creative feels like that aren't lucrative
unless you're incredibly successful.
So I think we have this awkward combination of,
yeah, there's people that are effectively kind of like artists
that are pursuing their passion.
But there's also people doing the exact same thing
because it sets them up well to like do all the other stuff
in their life.
So yeah, you don't really have like a painter side by side
with another painter that's just doing it for like, you know?
- Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
No, that makes sense.
- For the money.
So I think, yeah, I think I saw that tweet as well.
And it's tough.
I think I'm really, I feel grateful that this is my hobby
and I would be doing this even if it was not very lucrative.
I find a way to put time into it.
I'm just grateful that, you know, it is, it is a way to,
pretty easy way to make a living.
- And I never want people, like I never wanna say that
and people feel like shameful that they don't feel that way.
But at the same time, I wanna say it all the time
because I'm just so excited about this stuff.
And I know other people are too and it's nice to see that.
It's infectious to like share in the excitement of a thing
that's your hobby and that's your work and your whatever.
So it's this weird balance of like,
I never wanna say stuff like that,
like how much I love coding and make people feel bad
because they're a programmer but they don't really love it.
But at the same time, I wanna put that out in the world.
I don't know.
I'm sorry, just in advance.
I mean, there's a lot to put that on record.
- I think what's helpful for me in terms of perspective
is like my wife's friends, like she had some people over
this weekend and they were like asking me about what I do.
And I was just imagining that I'm going to my YouTube
or like my Twitch and watching it
and being like, this is the most boring thing in the world.
So, yeah, so. - Yeah, you're excited
to wake up from this. - I can't get
this in perspective around, yeah, exactly.
It is really weird that I'm really into the stuff
that is really boring to most people.
So yeah, if you find it boring
or it's not super excited about it,
like it just kind of is boring.
- Okay, so this podcast episode has gone from like,
hey, we're making a side project to like side projects
to like software development as a job.
I had another thought that I just wanna ask you,
it's kind of in that theme.
And that is like outsiders.
Where does software developer land now
in the broader society landscape?
Like how do outsiders, I don't know any more
'cause I don't interact with people.
How do people outside of tech view software development?
Because it was like, you go back like 2005.
That's when I graduated high school.
And like Zuckerberg makes Facebook
and it's like nerd, like software developers are like,
they're super nerds.
Then in fact, there was probably a period
over the last 15 years during my career
where it's like software developers are cool.
Like this is a cool job.
And I wonder like, has that changed?
Am I out of touch?
Do people think we're nerds again?
- Yeah, I struggle with this as well
because in my head, it's like this weird, not very professional
thing to do.
We're just kind of like doing random stuff
and it doesn't really look like a real job.
And that's like my bubble ones out.
Everyone I know is kind of like that.
But then I meet people that are also software engineers
but look like lawyers or like doctors.
Or I'm like, oh, this is just a normal profession
that's become very professionalized.
And like, you know, there's like I'll meet like very like
clean cut, well-educated, like couples that both,
you know, work at Apple and Google
and they have like a very successful life
where I think 10 years ago, you look at them
and be like, oh yeah, they're like two doctors, you know?
So I guess people might perceive it in that way.
It's just funny 'cause like in our circle,
we have like people like Theo and Prime and Trash
are like these are not like, like these are not like you know,
like they're kind of doctors.
- I mean, Prime is kind of a doctor.
- Ourself is good at it, yeah.
- It's funny when you said that I just think about every time
I say something to my wife, like, oh, Trash just said this thing
and she's like, Trash, you call him Trash.
I'm like, no, his name is Trash.
- I love this world.
- Yeah, exactly.
- But you speak to like another point
which is just that like software developer
is such a broad term.
And it kind of goes to the problem of like telling people
on the outside what it is you do.
But like, it's a huge spectrum of things
from the indie hacking crowd
to the people who look like doctors
and then all of us on Twitter and whatever we are.
Like, it's a good point.
It's not all one thing.
- Yeah, it's a, I mean, there's really millions.
There's millions of us.
There's so many.
- It's like 30 million, isn't it?
I think in the world--
- I wanna say it was like 30 million
in the world software developer, I could be wrong.
Maybe those web developer, I don't know.
- I remember 30 million, stands out to me.
We'll go.
- So we gotta get 30 million sign-ups when we base.
- We gotta start a total addressable market.
(laughing)
That's funny.
- Damn.
- So you should check out Rebase.
I guess we didn't say that.
We really gotta get better about like promoting things
that we're doing.
You should use Rebase, or you can't use it.
You should sign up and come to the first show.
It's gonna be amazing.
- I mean, you should use get Rebase.
That was a whole thing.
- I'm glad we didn't name it merge.
That would have been lame.
Rebase is so much better.
- Rebase.tv.
- Yeah, Rebase.tv, it's gonna be, I don't know,
however long it takes us to build the mobile app
and all the backend stuff that we need for it.
Then we're gonna do the first show
and you'll have chance at real cash prizes.
Just like HQ trivia.
It's amazing how many people don't remember what HQ trivia is.
I've been trying to explain this to people.
I'm like, it's just like HQ trivia, but for devs.
What is HQ trivia?
I thought it was like this huge phenomenon, but.
- Yeah, everyone I knew was on it,
but I guess people forgot or it didn't hit everywhere.
They had such a blame out.
It was so big and it just vanished.
- Yeah, that hopefully not a bad omen.
(laughing)
- Hey, but like we were saying earlier,
like, you know, even if it dies,
like at least it was fun.
- It was fun.
- It's already been fun.
- It's already been worth it for me.
I guess we'll see you in blood, sweat, and tears.
I still feel the same.
Or if it goes on the Mount Rushmore
of side projects that I (laughing)
Okay, cool.
This has been fun.
- Yep.
(upbeat music)